Job Responsibilities:

1- Perform data analysis.

This involves performing prescriptive, predictive and descriptive analytics on the dataset to analyse or solve a business challenge. For this knowledge of statistics, principles of statistical modelling, data visualisation is required. Knowledge of tools/APIs like Tablaue, d3.js, python, R etc is also required. I am also expected to gather requirements from the clients or ITA and provide conclusive reports to the stakeholders.

2- Architect and design the data products for clients of ITA or ITA.

I am expected to create products for Storing, Managing and Manipulating data. For this knowledge of relational database principles, distributed databases and NoSQL databases are required.  I am also expected to gather requirements from the clients, architect the solutions and possibly work with Data Engineers to implement the solutions. The responsibility also involves creating test cases to validate the correctness of the products. 

3- Train machine learning models for solving business problems.

I also work on creating self-learning intelligent products leveraging Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Artificial Intelligence and Probabilistic modelling. The responsibility involves researching and finding best method or inventing new algorithms which can solve the business challenge. For this I am expected to have knowledge of Mathematics like Linear Algebra, Calculus, Graph Theory, Statistics, Probability theory etc. I am also expected to know programming tools/languages/APIs like python, R, scikit-learn, spark, hadoop etc to the extent that I can prototype the solutions or architect the solution in such a way that it can be easily communicated to the engineers.

4 -Data visualisation and reporting.

I am also expected to support the reporting need of ITA or Clients of ITA. I work on generating and validating the periodic reports to monitor a process or progress of a product/company. For this I am expected to understand the business and its needs. I also work on defining new KPIs, improve existing KPIs to produce more effective reports for business stakeholders.

5 - Experimental Design 

I work on designing A/B tests to evaluate the success of a product features. For this responsibility, it is expected that the I understands the principles of experimental designs and inferential statistics. The responsibility also includes communicating with stakeholders to specify and gather the data required for the experiment. 

6 - Big Data Products

I also work on Big data platforms to store, manipulate and analyse the very large datasets. For this I am expected to know the principles of distributed databases and know about tools like Spark, Hadoop, Storm, Hive, Pig etc. For this I work under the supervision of a manager and collaborate with other engineers to architect, design and implement the solutions.